# JS NOTES

# Linking
## Script tag
```
<script>
    //code here
</script>

<script src="script.js"></script>
```

## Loading
If you have a script in the head that interacts with something in the body html,
it might not work. This is what you see window.onload or a 'DOMContentLoaded' addEventListener for example. Or you can put before the closing of body (performance considerations)

Both of these options dont dont block while downlaoding.
### Defer - doesnt work for inline(must have src)
- script will run after page is loaded
- scripts load in order
- finishes before firing DOMContentLoaded

```
<script defer src="script.js"></script>
```
### Async 
- script will evaluate/block as soon as it is available
- wont block html while downlaoding (fetch in parallel)
- use when scripts are independant of dom and one another
    - for example, basic metrics
    - background scripts fetching stuff you need but not immediately
```
<script async src="js/vendor/jquery.js"></script>
```


### Modules
normal modules defer by deafult.
what is the aync behavior?
### Refernce
[mdn page on script tag](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script)

# Event Listeners

### Inline (bad)
```
<button onclick="createParagraph()">Click me!</button>
```

### preferred
```
const buttons = document.querySelectorAll('button');

for (const button of buttons) {
  button.addEventListener('click', createParagraph);
}
```


# DOM
most things inherit from Node class. This includes elements and eeven the document.
Elements have a remove method now. 

### InnerHTML vs text
text just is litreally the text, html is like the whole string with tags and children?


## Select (see also: CSS Slectors)
can select based on class, id, attribute and sibling/descendant
">" , "+" or " " 
## Remove
### node
removeChild()
replaceChild()

### elements
remove() 
replaceChildren() can be blank
